README.md, before:

# terraform-openstack-rke

[![Terraform Registry](https://img.shields.io/badge/terraform-registry-blue.svg)](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/remche/rke/openstack)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/remche/terraform-openstack-rke.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/remche/terraform-openstack-rke)

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) module to deploy [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) with [RKE](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/) on [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org/).

Inspired by [Marco Capuccini](https://github.com/mcapuccini/terraform-openstack-rke) work, rewritten from scratch for Terraform 0.12+ and new [terraform-rke-provider](https://github.com/rancher/terraform-provider-rke).

## Table of contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Upgrading to Terraform 0.13](#terraform-0.13-upgrade)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Documentation](#documentation)

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) 0.13+. For Terraform 0.12.x, use terraform/v0.12 branch.
- [OpenStack](https://docs.openstack.org/zh_CN/user-guide/common/cli-set-environment-variables-using-openstack-rc.html) environment properly sourced.
- A Openstack image fullfiling [RKE requirements](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/os/).
- At least one Openstack floating IP.

## Terraform 0.13 upgrade

terraform-openstack-rke >= 0.5 supports Terraform >= 0.13. Some changes in the way Terraform manage providers require manual operations.

```hcl
terraform 0.13upgrade
terraform  state replace-provider 'registry.terraform.io/-/rke' 'registry.terraform.io/rancher/rke'
terraform init
```

For more informations see [Upgrading to Terraform v0.13](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html)

> :warning: There is some deep changes between 0.4 and 0.5 branches. This may lead to a replacement of the nodes and the rke cluster resources :warning:

## Examples
### Minimal example with master node as egde node and two worker nodes

```hcl
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_auth_url=$OS_AUTH_URL'
variable "os_auth_url"{}
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_password=$OS_PASSWORD'
variable "os_password"{}

 module "rke" {
  source  = "remche/rke/openstack"
  image_name          = "ubuntu-18.04-docker-x86_64"
  public_net_name     = "public"
  master_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  worker_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  os_auth_url         = var.os_auth_url
  os_password         = var.os_password
}
```

###  Minimal example with two egde nodes and one worker nodes

```hcl
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_auth_url=$OS_AUTH_URL'
variable "os_auth_url"{}
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_password=$OS_PASSWORD'
variable "os_password"{}

 module "rke" {
  source  = "remche/rke/openstack"
  image_name          = "ubuntu-18.04-docker-x86_64"
  public_net_name     = "public"
  master_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  worker_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  edge_count          = 2
  worker_count        = 1
  master_labels       = {"node-role.kubernetes.io/master" = "true"}
  edge_labels         = {"node-role.kubernetes.io/edge" = "true"}
  os_auth_url         = var.os_auth_url
  os_password         = var.os_password
}
```

## Documentation

See [USAGE.md](USAGE.md) for all available options.

### Keypair

You can either specify a ssh key file to generate new keypair via `ssh_key_file` (default) or specify already existent keypair via `ssh_keypair_name`.

> :warning: Default config will try to use  [ssh agent](https://linux.die.net/man/1/ssh-agent) for ssh connections to the nodes. Add `use_ssh_agent = false` if you don't use it.

### Secgroup

You can define your own rules (e.g. limiting port 22 and 6443 to admin box).

```hcl
secgroup_rules      = [ { "source" = "x.x.x.x", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 22 },
                        { "source" = "x.x.x.x", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 6443 },
                        { "source" = "0.0.0.0/0", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 80 },
                        { "source" = "0.0.0.0/0", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 443}
                      ]
```

### Nodes

Default config will deploy one master and two worker nodes. It will use Traefik (nginx not supported in this case).
You can define edge nodes (see [above](#minimal-example-with-two-egde-nodes-and-one-worker-nodes)).

You can set [affinity policy](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/openstack/r/compute_servergroup_v2.html#policies) for each nodes group (master, worker, edge) via `{master,worker,edge}_server_affinity`. Default is `soft-anti-affinity`.

> :warning: `soft-anti-affinity` and `soft-affinity` needs Compute service API 2.15 or above.

You can use `wait_for_commands` to specify a list of commands to be run before invoking RKE. It can be useful when installing Docker at provision time (note that cooking your image embedding Docker with [Packer](https://packer.io) is a better practice though) :
`wait_for_commands = ["while docker info ; [ $? -ne 0 ]; do echo wait for docker; sleep 30 ; done"]`

#### Boot from volume

Some providers require to boot the instances from an attached boot volume instead of the nova ephemeral volume.
To enable this feature, provide the variables to the config file:

```hcl
boot_from_volume = true
boot_volume_size = 20
```

### Kubernetes version

You can specify kubernetes version with `kubernetes_version` variables. Refer to RKE supported version.

### Cloud provider

The module will deploy [Openstack Cloud Provider](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/config-options/cloud-providers/openstack/). 
It will create the [Kubernetes Storageclasses](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/) for Cinder. If you have many Cinder storage type, you can specify it in [storage_types](variables.tf#L164) variable.

You can disable cloud provider via `cloud_provider` variable.

### Reverse Proxy

The module will deploy Traefik by default but you can use nginx-ingress instead. Note that nginx is not supported when master node is the edge node.

### User Add-Ons

You can specify you own [User Add_Ons](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/config-options/add-ons/user-defined-add-ons/) with [addons_include](variables.tf#176) variable.

### Usage with [RancherOS](https://rancher.com/rancher-os/)

RancherOS **needs** a node config drive to be configured. You can also provide a cloud config file :

```hcl
image_name          = "rancheros-1.5.5-x86_64"
system_user         = "rancher"
nodes_config_drive  = "true"
user_data_file      = "rancher.yml"
```

### Usage with [Terraform Kubernetes Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) and [Helm Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/helm/index.html)

> :warning: **Interpolating provider variables from module output is not the recommended way to achieve integration**. See [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) and [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html#provider-configuration).
>
> Use of a data sources is recommended.

(Not recommended) You can use this module to populate [Terraform Kubernetes Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) :

```hcl
provider "kubernetes" {
  host     = module.rke.rke_cluster.api_server_url
  username = module.rke.rke_cluster.kube_admin_user

  client_certificate     = module.rke.rke_cluster.client_cert
  client_key             = module.rke.rke_cluster.client_key
  cluster_ca_certificate = module.rke.rke_cluster.ca_crt
}
```

Recommended way needs two `apply` operations, and setting the proper `terraform_remote_state` data source :

```hcl
provider "kubernetes" {
  host     = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.api_server_url
  username = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.kube_admin_user
  client_certificate     = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.client_cert
  client_key             = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.client_key
  cluster_ca_certificate = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.ca_crt
  load_config_file = "false"
}
```

Commit message:

Configure LoadBalancer for openstack_cloud_provider (#79)
* Added variable to enable octavia LBaaS
* Added floating_network argument to load_balancer block
* Added LB module and resources (#26)
* Output LB floating ip
* Added listener for 6443 (Kubernetes API)
* Updated README
* Fix #26

README.md, after:

# terraform-openstack-rke

[![Terraform Registry](https://img.shields.io/badge/terraform-registry-blue.svg)](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/remche/rke/openstack)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/remche/terraform-openstack-rke.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/remche/terraform-openstack-rke)

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) module to deploy [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) with [RKE](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/) on [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org/).

Inspired by [Marco Capuccini](https://github.com/mcapuccini/terraform-openstack-rke) work, rewritten from scratch for Terraform 0.12+ and new [terraform-rke-provider](https://github.com/rancher/terraform-provider-rke).

## Table of contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Upgrading to Terraform 0.13](#terraform-0.13-upgrade)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Documentation](#documentation)

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) 0.13+. For Terraform 0.12.x, use terraform/v0.12 branch.
- [OpenStack](https://docs.openstack.org/zh_CN/user-guide/common/cli-set-environment-variables-using-openstack-rc.html) environment properly sourced.
- A Openstack image fullfiling [RKE requirements](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/os/).
- At least one Openstack floating IP.

## Terraform 0.13 upgrade

terraform-openstack-rke >= 0.5 supports Terraform >= 0.13. Some changes in the way Terraform manage providers require manual operations.

```hcl
terraform 0.13upgrade
terraform  state replace-provider 'registry.terraform.io/-/rke' 'registry.terraform.io/rancher/rke'
terraform init
```

For more informations see [Upgrading to Terraform v0.13](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html)

> :warning: There is some deep changes between 0.4 and 0.5 branches. This may lead to a replacement of the nodes and the rke cluster resources :warning:

## Examples
### Minimal example with master node as egde node and two worker nodes

```hcl
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_auth_url=$OS_AUTH_URL'
variable "os_auth_url"{}
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_password=$OS_PASSWORD'
variable "os_password"{}

 module "rke" {
  source  = "remche/rke/openstack"
  image_name          = "ubuntu-18.04-docker-x86_64"
  public_net_name     = "public"
  master_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  worker_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  os_auth_url         = var.os_auth_url
  os_password         = var.os_password
}
```

###  Minimal example with two egde nodes and one worker nodes

```hcl
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_auth_url=$OS_AUTH_URL'
variable "os_auth_url"{}
# Consider using 'export TF_VAR_os_password=$OS_PASSWORD'
variable "os_password"{}

 module "rke" {
  source  = "remche/rke/openstack"
  image_name          = "ubuntu-18.04-docker-x86_64"
  public_net_name     = "public"
  master_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  worker_flavor_name  = "m1.small"
  edge_count          = 2
  worker_count        = 1
  master_labels       = {"node-role.kubernetes.io/master" = "true"}
  edge_labels         = {"node-role.kubernetes.io/edge" = "true"}
  os_auth_url         = var.os_auth_url
  os_password         = var.os_password
}
```

## Documentation

See [USAGE.md](USAGE.md) for all available options.

### Keypair

You can either specify a ssh key file to generate new keypair via `ssh_key_file` (default) or specify already existent keypair via `ssh_keypair_name`.

> :warning: Default config will try to use  [ssh agent](https://linux.die.net/man/1/ssh-agent) for ssh connections to the nodes. Add `use_ssh_agent = false` if you don't use it.

### Secgroup

You can define your own rules (e.g. limiting port 22 and 6443 to admin box).

```hcl
secgroup_rules      = [ { "source" = "x.x.x.x", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 22 },
                        { "source" = "x.x.x.x", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 6443 },
                        { "source" = "0.0.0.0/0", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 80 },
                        { "source" = "0.0.0.0/0", "protocol" = "tcp", "port" = 443}
                      ]
```

### Nodes

Default config will deploy one master and two worker nodes. It will use Traefik (nginx not supported in this case).
You can define edge nodes (see [above](#minimal-example-with-two-egde-nodes-and-one-worker-nodes)).

You can set [affinity policy](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/openstack/r/compute_servergroup_v2.html#policies) for each nodes group (master, worker, edge) via `{master,worker,edge}_server_affinity`. Default is `soft-anti-affinity`.

> :warning: `soft-anti-affinity` and `soft-affinity` needs Compute service API 2.15 or above.

You can use `wait_for_commands` to specify a list of commands to be run before invoking RKE. It can be useful when installing Docker at provision time (note that cooking your image embedding Docker with [Packer](https://packer.io) is a better practice though) :
`wait_for_commands = ["while docker info ; [ $? -ne 0 ]; do echo wait for docker; sleep 30 ; done"]`

#### Boot from volume

Some providers require to boot the instances from an attached boot volume instead of the nova ephemeral volume.
To enable this feature, provide the variables to the config file:

```hcl
boot_from_volume = true
boot_volume_size = 20
```
### Loadbalancer

This module will create a layer 4 loadbalancer using LBaaS or LBaaSv2 in front of the master nodes or the edge nodes if there are any.
It creates appropriate TCP listeners and monitors for HTTP (:80), HTTPS (:443) and Kubernetes API (:6443).

To use Octavia instead of Neutron Networking as LBaaS, use

```hcl
use_octavia = true
```

### Kubernetes version

You can specify kubernetes version with `kubernetes_version` variables. Refer to RKE supported version.

### Cloud provider

The module will deploy [Openstack Cloud Provider](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/config-options/cloud-providers/openstack/). 
It will create the [Kubernetes Storageclasses](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/) for Cinder. If you have many Cinder storage type, you can specify it in [storage_types](variables.tf#L164) variable.

You can disable cloud provider via `cloud_provider` variable.

### Reverse Proxy

The module will deploy Traefik by default but you can use nginx-ingress instead. Note that nginx is not supported when master node is the edge node.

### User Add-Ons

You can specify you own [User Add_Ons](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/config-options/add-ons/user-defined-add-ons/) with [addons_include](variables.tf#176) variable.

### Usage with [RancherOS](https://rancher.com/rancher-os/)

RancherOS **needs** a node config drive to be configured. You can also provide a cloud config file :

```hcl
image_name          = "rancheros-1.5.5-x86_64"
system_user         = "rancher"
nodes_config_drive  = "true"
user_data_file      = "rancher.yml"
```

### Usage with [Terraform Kubernetes Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) and [Helm Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/helm/index.html)

> :warning: **Interpolating provider variables from module output is not the recommended way to achieve integration**. See [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) and [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html#provider-configuration).
>
> Use of a data sources is recommended.

(Not recommended) You can use this module to populate [Terraform Kubernetes Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/kubernetes/index.html) :

```hcl
provider "kubernetes" {
  host     = module.rke.rke_cluster.api_server_url
  username = module.rke.rke_cluster.kube_admin_user

  client_certificate     = module.rke.rke_cluster.client_cert
  client_key             = module.rke.rke_cluster.client_key
  cluster_ca_certificate = module.rke.rke_cluster.ca_crt
}
```

Recommended way needs two `apply` operations, and setting the proper `terraform_remote_state` data source :

```hcl
provider "kubernetes" {
  host     = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.api_server_url
  username = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.kube_admin_user
  client_certificate     = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.client_cert
  client_key             = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.client_key
  cluster_ca_certificate = data.terraform_remote_state.rke.outputs.cluster.ca_crt
  load_config_file = "false"
}
```
